The final part of this course will conclude with actually
working with the packages inside of CodeArtifact.
First,
we need to make sure you have the right prerequisites required to
work with software packages inside of CodeArtifact.
There are only two things we need to have set up for this module,
and we already have set up one of them.
I'm going to assume that you already have AWS CLI set up too.
Okay, so we have everything in place.
Let's take a look at what CodeArtifact software packages are.
CodeArtifact packages exist inside of a CodeArtifact repository.
Packages consist of metadata and the actual package asset.
Like we talked about earlier, this mitigates duplication.
You can have multiple software packages and assets inside of a repository,
and CodeArtifact will make sure they only ever store one of the same type.
A repository will contain software package versions and metadata,
which will point to a software package asset.
All of your software packages are encrypted using KMS,
and Amazon handles all of this for you.
Also,
do not worry about adding too many packages to your
repository as it will scale automatically.
You can publish new versions of supported package types to a
CodeArtifact repository using tools like npm.
You can't republish a package asset that already exists with different content.
For example, say you already have published an npm package called Package1.
You can't publish that asset again unless the checksum of
the old and new assets are identical.
To republish the same asset with new content,
first, delete the package and then republish it.
Okay,
so now we have a simple understanding of software
packages and assets in CodeArtifact.
Let's take a look at adding them using our AWS CLI.
In this demo,
we're going to cover the following components in a little bit more detail.
We're going to take a look at adding a software package to our repository.
We're going to have a look at listing the versions of that package,
and then we're going to add another version, and then
we're going to delete the first version.
And then we're also going to take a look at installing
software packages from our repository.
Okay,
so here we are in our globomantics‑repo that we created earlier.
We're going to hit View connection instructions.
We're then going to select our package manager client, and
for this tutorial, I'm going to use npm.
Then CodeArtifact conveniently gives you the login authorization command.
So I'm just going to copy that, and I'm going to paste that into my bash.
Here you can see that it's going to log into our globomantics‑repo and into
our domain, and it's going to specify I'm the domain owner.
So let's jump over to bash, and then in here, let's paste
that command and then run that command.
Okay, cool.
So that command was successful, and our login expires in 12 hours.
Let's jump back over to the dashboard, and then let's select
Manual setup: push and pull from your repository.
Then we're going to copy this next command,
which is going to give us an authorization token for us to use with npm.
So let's copy that.
Jump back over to our bash, paste that in. Now that that variable is set, let's
jump back over to the dashboard once again, and let's copy our connection
information for npm. So we'll copy that. And then this time, I'm going to jump
over to my code editor. And you'll be able to find these course files in the
course file section, and then in the .npmrc, you want to paste those connection
details in there. Okay,
so now we have our connection information set up, and we're all
authorized to use our repo with our local CLI.
So the next thing I want to do is I want to jump back to our bash, and
then in here I want to npm init our package. Package name, let's call it
globomantics‑package. Version 1 is fine.
As a description, this is a custom package.
Entry point, index.js. It doesn't need a command or Git repository.
Author, I am the author, Joshua Edwards. License, MIT.
That looks okay.
So I'll type in yes. And then there we go.
So what just happened?
Npm just created our package for us, and let's have a look
inside of our package.json. There we go.
There's our globomantics‑package all set up and ready for us to push to the
repository. And you'll see that also in your folder too.
Okay, so we have our package created.
Let's take a look at pushing this package to our repository. Now in here,
if we just use npm publish, npm is then going to push our
globomantics‑package to our repo, and you can see it's done that at version
1.0.0. So let's jump back over to the AWS dashboard,
close this down, and then if we hit Refresh in here, okay,
so as you can see, here is our package that we just pushed.
So let's drill into it. If we click on the package, we can see that
1.0.0 was published, and then in here, we can have a look at the
asset that is associated with this package. And that'll just be our
index.js file and any others that you include. Cool! Super easy and
super simple.
So let's have a look at what other commands we can use with the CLI.
So here we are back in bash.
Let's type in AWS CodeArtifact, and I'm purposely going to misspell something.
So I'll just put qwerty in.
And it's going to say that that's not a command.
But here we can see a quick list of most‑used commands.
And we've already used the login.
So in this next command,
let's have a look at listing the packages. You can type in aws codeartifact
help, and you'll see a more comprehensive version of this.
Here we have the next command we're going to use, and we're going to
list the package versions of our globomantics‑package.
Here you can see the revision that we published in the version 1.0.1.
So pretty cool.
Let's just get out of here.
Cool, so let's get out of here, and then let's head back
over to our editor. In the package.json,
I'm going to update the version to 1.0.1, and then I'm going to update
the index.js to maybe have one less exclamation mark.
Okay, and then if we head back over to our bash window again,
and then in here we can type npm publish,
and that will then publish our next version 1.0.1.
So let's head back over to our dashboard, and then we'll go to our
package version, and we'll see our new 1.0.1.
This is really simple and really easy to use.
Okay,
let's head back over to our bash. And now we're
going to delete one of our versions.
So if we use this following command, codeartifact
delete‑package‑versions, we're going to specify the repo.
We're going to specify the domain and the domain owner and
the format and then the package name and then also the
package version that we want to delete.
So let's do that.
Let's delete 1.0.0.
That has just been confirmed.
So let's Ctrl+C out of here and then jump back over to the repo.
And if we refresh this, our 1.0.0 will now have disappeared.
Awesome! So it really is that simple to use.
Okay, next,
we're going to have a look at installing our package that we just created.
So if we jump back over to bash, and then I'm going to go to our install
directory. And then in here, I'm going to copy over the .npmrc
configuration that we've got for publishing the packages.
And I'm going to give it to the install directory too. Done. And then we'll
jump back to bash, and we will npm install, and we're going to install our
globomantics‑package@1.0.1. And there we have it.
We have our custom package installed from our custom repo.
Let's just check that out.
So if we go over to our editor and then into note_modules,
and we can see our globomantics‑package has then been installed and is ready for us to use.